
			 CS5765 Computer Vision

			Programming Assignment 2
		     Submission date: Feb 19, 2013


The second assignment is to get used to estimating using image
measurements, a problem that is common in Computer Vision and several
other areas. You should get familiar with the use of linear estimation,
least squares estimation using DLT, and robust estimation using RANSAC.

We will do this in the context of camera calibration, or estimating the
K, R, and t of the camera matrix P = K [R | t]. We need to have a
several (at least 6) points for which the 3D world coordinates and the
2D image coordinates are known.

You have to develop calibration programs using

(a) direct linear transformation using 6 matches to solve for the P
	matrix.  You can use a linear solver from OpenCV to get the
	solution.

(b) least squares estimation using SVD using all available matches.
	You can use SVD from OpenCV or another math library.

(c) RANSAC based approach where the code of (a) is used for the basic
	solution. Implement your own random sampling and inlier
	estimation procedures. (You may also compare with the RANSAC
	process given in OpenCV, but only after you do it yourself)

(d) OpenCV has its own calibration library function. You may use it to
	compare your results with also. It is important to understand it
	as that represents the state-of-the-art.


From the P matrix, you can use standard decomposition/factorization
techniques to get K, R, and t.

In each case, the quality of estimate is to be evaluated using the
measure of reprojection error for all points in the dataset. Report the
reprojection error on each dataset for all 4 methods. Once again, the
analysis and the understanding is the real outcome of the assignment,
not the code and numbers. So, demonstrat it.


We will use 2 types of data for evaluation.
(A) We will make a couple of standard 2D-3D match dataset available in a
	simple format.
(B) You can collect your own images where you image objects with several
	known dimensions. The 3D-to-2D correspondence may be found
	manually or using a program, but you have to do it yourself.
	All world measurements have to be in the same coordinate system!



