 

 Dear Sir/Madam, 

The International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad announces its 
annual Robotics Workshop – ROBOCAMP’11, to be held from June 6 to June 11, 2011. 

This is an exhaustive workshop where participants from all major colleges/universities 
come to learn making robots out of scratch. The events conducted here are of the 
highest quality. We have a pool of eminent judges who can transform competitions into 
great learning experiences. Not only the participants acquire theoretical knowledge 
base, but also do practical stuff. 

The basic aim of our workshop is to encourage and empower the untapped and budding 
potential of students by providing them a platform where they not only compete but 
also learn to apply their innate skills. We aspire to provide the students a feel of "not 
very far-fetched" problems and their solutions and apply their innovative minds to 
sketch creative solutions to common problems. 

 

The very structure of this workshop is of the following pattern: 

. Lectures 
. Brain Storming Session & Building the Robots 
. Tasks and Assignments 
. Showcase & Felicitation 


 

Robocamp being our annual technical event, a cordial relationship with our sponsors is 
of the utmost importance to us. We believe in a relationship of mutual benefit and so, in 
return for what the sponsors have to offer us, we ensure that they get the best services. 
Most of our audience consists of teenagers, college-goers, and young professionals. This 
offers the sponsors a wide range of opportunities, ensuring high recall value. 


About the Institute: 

The International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) is an 
autonomous university founded in 1998. It is a research university focused on the core 
areas of Information Technology, such as Computer Science, Electronics and 
Communications, and their applications in other domains. The Institute combines 
pioneering research with top class education. 

In sum, the Institute offers students a unique environment that promotes culture, 
sports, societal contributions, art, self-governance and human values. 

Every year, many students from IIIT participate in various national and international 
competitions and have made the institute proud with their performances. Some of them 
include: 

. Services Innovation Challenge (SIC) award at the First International Conference 
on Services in Emerging Markets (ICSEM) 2010 organized at the ISB, Hyderabad. 
. Silver medal at the International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI) 2010 held at 
University of Waterloo, Canada. 
. IIIT-H's team Mission Gaganyaan was ranked FIRST at the CanSat 2010, ahead of 
13 other teams from premier Universities from across the world, at Amarillo, 
Texas, USA. 
. IIIT-H ECE Students Team finished among top 4 at World Embedded Software 
Contest 2010 (WESC 2010) held at Seoul. 
. IIIT-H team won both the first and second ranks in the international contest 
Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD), in the unsupervised machine learning 
category. 
. SETU Software Systems, a IIIT-H incubated firm, was adjudged the Best Product 
Startup, in the Enterprise category, by the IT & ITES Association of Andhra 
Pradesh (ITsAP), at the 18th Annual Software Products Showcase, Awards and 
Conference 2009. 


Over the past few years, IIIT-H has constantly made it among the top 10 T-Schools of the 
country, alongside IITs. 

IIIT-H’s Director, Prof. Rajeev Sangal, figures among the 50 most illustrious alumni to 
have been selected by IIT-Kanpur. 


Participation: 

. Hundreds of students visit Robocamp every year in the yearn of 
learning advanced technical skills with hands on approach. 
. Lectures from guest faculties which come from various institutes 
like IITs, IISc etc. 
. Campaigning done in 100+ major colleges throughout India; also 
draws participants through online campaigning. 
. Participation from top colleges like IITs, NITs, JNTU, OU, CBIT etc. 


 

Why Sponsor us? 

. Nation-wide participation. 
. Publicity via print and online media. 
. Strong Student-Sponsor ties. 
. Exposure to other big events in IIITH like: 
o Felicity – The annual Cultural and Technical Fest of IIIT-H 
held in the month of February and amasses huge 
participation from all over the globe. 
o R&D Showcase – The annual exhibition of latest innovation 
technologies and projects done in various research 
departments. 


. Robocamp promises you the highest return that can be expected 
from such an investment. 


 

 


http://robocamp.iiit.ac.in/images/ieee.JPG
http://robocamp.iiit.ac.in/images/hellointern.png
Sponsorship Slab: 

 

Sponsorship 
Benefits 

20k-25k 

50k 

75k 

1 Lakh 

1.5 Lakh 

Logo on 
Website 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Logo on Robot 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Logo on T-Shirt 

 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Company Profile 
on Website 

 

 

* 

* 

* 

Pamphlets 
during events 

 

 

 

* 

* 

Title Sponsor 

 

 

 

 

* 



 

Past Sponsors: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Contact: 

Mamidi Raja Manikanta 
IIIT-Hyderabad. 
Email ID: manikanta.mamidi@students.iiit.ac.in 
Mobile: +91-9966595277 


