
		  CS5765. Computer Vision. Spring 2013

			Programming Assignment 3

			Deadline 1: March 22, 2013


This assignment is to study interest points and applications.  
They are
used heavily in modern visual recognition.  
This assignment is to be
done in teams of 2.  
It has two parts: the first part is a study on
different interest points and descriptors. 
The second part is an
implementation of a standard object recognition pipeline and testing its
performance on different datasets.


Due on March 15th

  Choose your partner for the project. Post the names, roll numbers, and
  email addresses of both members on the forum of the courses portal.


Due on March 22th

  You will study the properties and behaviour of common interest points
  such as Harris Corners, SIFT, SURF, etc. 
They are available on OpenCV
  and Matlab. There is a very useful library called VLFeat
  (www.vlfeat.org) that you can use for different tasks of this
  assignment.

  
In Part 1, you have to use various detectors and descriptors to find
  interest points in the image. 
These interest points can be used to
  find correspondences between images in the feature space. 
These
  matches are noisy but still work when combined with a robust estimator
  like RANSAC.

  
The task is to estimate the Fundamental Matrix between 2 images using
  SIFT and SURF features for matching points between them. 
RANSAC is
  absolutely necessary here. Estimate F by matching interest points.  Be
  aware of how the ratio test is used to match SIFT features. You should
  report standard measures like reprojection error to understand the
  quality of the fundamental matrix.

  You should build a web-based interface using which one can submit a 2
  images to your system. The F will be computed for them using the above
  process. To demonstrate the results, display the 2 image side-by-side.
  Select 8-10 random matches between the images. Mark the points in the
  "first" (or "left") image and draw the corresponding epipolar line in
  the other image. Use colors to match the points and lines.

  You should also submit a report comparing the performance of different
  descriptors on a few example image pairs. Compare the time to find the
  interest points, the time to find the matches, as well as the F.
  Explain your findings and state possible reasons. You are encouraged
  to try out several descriptors; use of at least SIFT and SURF is
  manadatory.

  The VLFeat repository contains libraries for many descriptors. 
Do try
  those out and get a comprehensive understanding on how well each does.
  You should use the code, but understand what is going on at each step
  and why.

  You should produce a comprehensive report on your findings from these
  experiments. Comprehension of the process is the key take away from
  this assignment.

